# Features under Docker Engine 18.09 Release

Docker Engine v18.09.1 went GA during January 2019. It was made available for both the Community and Enterprise users. Docker Enterprise is a superset of all the features in Docker Community Edition. It incorporates defect fixes that you can use in environments where new features cannot be adopted as quickly for consistency and compatibility reasons.

New in 18.09 is an aligned release model for Docker Engine – Community and Docker Engine – Enterprise. The new versioning scheme is YY.MM.x where x is an incrementing patch version. They will ship concurrently with the same x patch version based on the same code base.

[Updated – 2/15/2019]:Security fixes for Docker Engine – Enterprise and Docker Engine – Community
Update runc to address a critical vulnerability that allows specially-crafted containers to gain administrative privileges on the host. CVE-2019-5736
Ubuntu 14.04 customers using a 3.13 kernel will need to upgrade to a supported Ubuntu 4.x kernel
Docker Engine v18.09.1 comes with dozens of new features, improvements and bug fixes. Let us go through the list of Top features which you should be aware of while you upgrade to Docker 18.09.1 release.

## Docker Engine v18.09.1 comes with containerd v1.2.2

- BuildKit 0.3.3 is Available & is out of experimental mode
- Support for Compose on Kubernetes
- Exposing Product Info under docker info command
- Process isolation on Windows 10 for the first time
- Support for remote connections using SSH
- Support for SSH agent socket forwarder
- Support for “registry-mirrors” and “insecure-registries” when using BuildKit
- Support for build-time secrets using a --secret flag when using BuildKit
- Support for docker build –pull … when using BuildKit
- Docker Engine v18.09.1 comes with containerd 1.2.2 version

Docker Engine v18.09.2 release for CE and EE both is shipped with containerd 1.2.2 version. In Docker versions prior to 18.09, containerd was managed by the Docker engine daemon. In Docker Engine 18.09, containerd is managed by systemd.

[Top 5 Features of Docker Engine v18.09.1 That You Shouldn’t Miss Out](http://collabnix.com/meet-buildkit-a-next-gen-docker-build/)

[Proceed >> Docker 19.03](https://github.com/collabnix/dockerlabs/tree/master/beginners/1903.md)
